# Drug Dealers Against Legalization

Cannabis is fully legal in [15 states and some US
territories](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legality_of_cannabis_by_U.S._jurisdiction).
Worse, [Oregon Measure 110](https://ballotpedia.org/Oregon_Measure_110,_Drug_Decriminalization_and_Addiction_Treatment_Initiative_(2020)) decriminalized *all* controlled substance, presaging broad drug legalization.
Decriminalization is bad enough, but legalization puts drug dealers out of business.
Who can compete against high quality, inexpensive legal drugs?

To fulfill the robust demand for illegal drugs, we drug dealers are in
a competition to be as violent and intimiating as possible. Murder is
pretty commonplace, and all this violence encourages law enforcement
to sink an impressive amount of resources into culling the weak. To be
clear, police manage to damage our organizations occasionally, but
this just [clears the deadwood for fresh drug dealers to become new
suppliers](https://lawenforcementactionpartnership.org/);
demand is never affected. It's like the [circle of
life](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circle_of_Life), and has inspired
hundreds of hours of solid entertainment such as [Maria Full of Grace
(2004)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maria_Full_of_Grace), [Miami
Vice 1984-1989](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miami_Vice), and
[Breaking Bad 2008-2013](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breaking_Bad).
Drug legalization could make drug supply boring, and is a serious
threat to popular entertainment themes.

How law enforcement has wasted resources trying (and failing) to stop
illegal drug dealers creates distrust in the police and may have
contributed to the [*Defund the
police*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defund_the_police) 2020 slogan.
Fortunately, we regard this as political theatre and expect no real
changes. The police mostly respond to whatever is classified as
illegal.  As long as drug distribution and trafficking penalties are
severe enough, enforcement is going to be violent regardless of
whether they are called "police" or "[DEA](https://www.dea.gov/)" or
whatever agency is charged with enforcing the laws.

Drug legalization would likely make it more difficult for teenagers to
get their hands on drugs. Similar with alcohol purchase, buyers could
be age checked. We anticipate a modest drop in demand because we won't
be able to get kids addicted early in life. This should make drug
manufacturers nervous. We hope to form an alliance with the sister
group Drug Manufacturers Against Legalization (DMAL) to oppose drug
legalization. Please reach out to us.

Legalization will likely reduce the frequence of overdoses and HIV
transmission. Potentially the number of addicts could increase or
remain stable, since fewer people will die from drug use, but this is
irrelevant to our business concerns because legalization would cut us
out of the supply chain. People dying from drug use is a necessary
evil; our paycheck depends on it.

Of course we push the hardest of hard drugs because they are easy to
transport (and most profitable). Back in the good old days of [alcohol
prohibition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prohibition_in_the_United_States),
did anybody smuggle low-alcohol beer? No, of course
not. Whiskey was more
favored. [Fentanyl](https://www.drugabuse.gov/drug-topics/fentanyl)
and [Synthetic
Cannabinoids](https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/synthetic-cannabinoids-k2spice)
are just our latest fine products. As drug dealers, we believe in easy
access to drugs, and that means easy to carry and conceal. Support
your local drug dealer and avoid the social stigma of ostentatious
drug display.

Even without full legalization, decriminalization takes the wind out
of our sails (and sales). The risk inherent in drug dealing would be
reduced, reducing the risk premium and potential profits. Millions of
people currently incarcerated for nonviolent drug offenses would be
released.  Given that the US has the world's [highest per-capita
incarceration
rate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Incarceration_in_the_United_States),
this could cause some prisons to shut down, leading to unemployment.
We hope to ally with Prisons Guards Against Drug Legalization (PGADL)
to oppose drug legalization. Please reach out to us.

In a scenario of blanket legalization,
* Drug use could increase. Currently, some people refrain from using
because the substances are illegal, buyers fear law enforcement, or
buyers doubt the quality of available product sold in the shadows by
criminals. However, as drug dealers, we can't capitalize on the
increase in usage because we're no longer the suppliers. Support your
local drug dealer; help us avoid going out of business.
* Drug could decrease because tax
collection from legal drug sales could be directed toward treatment
and rehabilitation programs. This is really the worst possible
outcome. Not only are we cut out of the cash flow as drug suppliers,
but demand for drugs is slowly getting whittled away. The devistating
impact of this one-two punch would make it very difficult for us to
reverse laws back to our advantage. This is an outcome that we are
most keen to avoid.

Support DDAL. Why a four letter acronym? In part, it is a swipe at the
[failed and
discredited](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drug_Abuse_Resistance_Education)
[Drug Abuse Resistance Education](https://dare.org/) program (DARE).

Sources:

[Hari, J. (2015). Chasing the scream: The first and last days of the war on drugs. Bloomsbury Publishing USA.](https://chasingthescream.com/)
